Build and run the Logos Blockchain UI App (#271)
status-im/ift-docs: docs/blockchain/node-app/build-and-run-logos-blockchain-node-app-ui.md

---
title: Start a Logos Blockchain node via the app UI
doc_type: procedure
product: blockchain
topics: blockchain
steps_layout: sectioned
authors: davidrusu, cheny0
owner: logos
doc_version: 1
slug: start-a-logos-blockchain-node-via-the-app-ui
---

# Start a Logos Blockchain node via the app UI

#### Run a node that participates in consensus via a graphical interface.

The Logos Blockchain is the blockchain module of the Logos technology stack, providing a privacy-preserving and censorship-resistant framework for decentralized network states. You can run a Logos Blockchain node [using the CLI](./run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-testnet-from-cli.md) or the graphical interface.

> {% hint style="info" %}

Reviewer: This doesn't render when viewing the file in github, consider:
```
> ![INFO]`
> Some info msg...
```

Reviewer 2: Yes, I know. This is the format we're now using across the docs to allow callouts to render on the gitbook website. Unfortunately, support for plugins enabling github-style ![INFO] tags is no longer available on gitbook.

Reviewer: This takes us out of generic .md format into gitbook exit friction territory... since we're starting fresh I thought easier to keep it generic rather than be nudged into github exit-friction territory.
Worth highlighting/tracking.

Reviewer 2: I mean, they map 1 to 1. If we need to leave, we can do a search and replace.

For testnet v0.1, you must manually edit the config file and restart the node to add new keys.

{% endhint %}

Before you start, make sure you have the following:

- A supported OS: Linux x86_64 or macOS

> - [Nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-installer) installed with flakes enabled.

Reviewer: Good to see `--enable-flakes` as part of the single install line!
Ideally we could have the single install line here (rather than have the user leave to the NixOS repo), and ensure it doesn't go stale by having it in a script, and add a pre-processing step to the docs to take that command and insert it here.
Not for this PR just an idea issue for such scenarios. Note this is different to the automated testing of tutorials in the tool used by core.

{% hint style="info" %}

For testnet v0.1, you must manually edit the config file and restart the node to add new keys.

{% endhint %}

Before you start, make sure you have the following:

- A supported OS: Linux x86_64 or macOS
- [Nix](https://github.com/NixOS/nix-installer) installed with flakes enabled.

## What to expect

By the end of this tutorial:

- You will have a Logos Blockchain node running and connected to peers.
- Your wallet will hold testnet funds requested from the faucet.
- Your node will be eligible to participate in the consensus lottery after the UTXO ages for approximately two hours.

## Step 1: Run the Logos Blockchain app

1. Clone the repository:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain-ui.git
    cd logos-blockchain-ui
    ```

1. Build the standalone app:

    ```sh
    nix build
    ```

    - If flakes are not enabled globally, run `nix build --extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' '.#app'` instead.

1. Run the app:

    ```sh
    ./result/bin/logos-blockchain-ui-app

>     ```

Reviewer 3: **Dogfooding (Linux x86_64, Nix 2.34.7): Step 1 build/run commands are broken.**

I followed Step 1 on a clean machine. `nix build` succeeds but produces the **module library** (`result/lib/blockchain_ui_plugin.so` + QML) — there is **no** `result/bin/` directory, so Step 1.3 (`./result/bin/logos-blockchain-ui-app`) fails with `No such file or directory`. The fallback also fails: there is no `.#app` attribute in the flake (`error: flake … does not provide attribute 'packages.x86_64-linux.app'`).

The repo's own [README](https://github.com/logos-blockchain/logos-blockchain-ui#standalone-app-quickstart) builds **and** launches the standalone app in one step with `nix run` (`apps.default` → `run-logos-standalone-ui`; `nix build` is documented there only as "combined plugin + QML output"). I confirmed `nix run` is the entrypoint that pulls in the full standalone app (blockchain module included) and launches it.

Suggested fix — collapse the two steps into one and use `nix run`:

````suggestion
1. Build and run the standalone app:

    ```sh
    nix run
    ```

    - If flakes are not enabled globally, run `nix run --extra-experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' .` instead.
````

Reviewer 3: Confirmed end-to-end: after applying the suggestion, `nix run` builds the full standalone app (the entire Logos blockchain/circuits/rapidsnark Rust stack — the >1h build the doc warns about) and launches it. The app comes up and loads the blockchain module:

```
[info] Module loaded: capability_module
[info] Module loaded: liblogos_blockchain_module
```

Running processes: `logos-standalone-app-bin` (main UI), `logos_host_qt` hosts for `capability_module` + `liblogos_blockchain_module`, and `ui-host` serving `blockchain_ui_plugin.so`. The GUI steps (2–4: Generate Config / Start Node / faucet) need a display so I couldn't click through them headlessly, but the build+launch path the doc documents is now verified.

---
title: Build and run the Logos Blockchain UI App
doc_type: procedure
product: blockchain
topics: blockchain
steps_layout: sectioned
authors: davidrusu, cheny0
owner: logos
doc_version: 1
slug: build-and-run-logos-blockchain-node-app-ui
---

# Build and run the Logos Blockchain UI App

#### Run a node that participates in consensus via a standalone application.

> The Logos Blockchain is the blockchain module of the Logos technology stack, providing a privacy-preserving and censorship-resistant framework for decentralized network states. You can run a Logos Blockchain node [using the CLI](./run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-testnet-from-cli.md) or a standalone application.

Reviewer 3: Broken relative link: `./run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-testnet-from-cli.md` resolves to `docs/blockchain/node-app/run-a-logos-blockchain-node-on-public-testnet-from-cli.md`, which doesn't exist (404). The CLI node guide is at `docs/blockchain/get-started/run-a-logos-blockchain-node-from-cli.md`, so the link needs to point one directory up:

```suggestion
The Logos Blockchain is the blockchain module of the Logos technology stack, providing a privacy-preserving and censorship-resistant framework for decentralized network states. You can run a Logos Blockchain node [using the CLI](../get-started/run-a-logos-blockchain-node-from-cli.md) or a standalone application.
```
